Hi everyone, my name is Christina and I'll be
showing a demo of my group's visualization on
food prices and food stamp usage in the United
States. Here you can see a colored map of the
US based on unit prices of the chosen food prices,
which is dairy right now. We didn't have data for
the states in white, but states colored more red
have relatively higher, more expensive prices and
states colored more green have lower, cheaper
prices. We chose these colors with the idea
that more expensive prices are undesirable as it
makes the food less affordable and cheaper prices
are better. The legend on the bottom explicitly
shows this and provides more specific information
on the exact price corresponding to the colors.
We thought that the use of a color gradient for
the legend makes it visually appealing, but it
is harder to discern the exact color shade of
each state and derive the exact price from that.
That’s why we incorporated a hover functionality,
so you can see the actual average unit price. So
in Oklahoma, the average unit price was $3.07.
The next two interactive features
are the slider and the dropdown.
When you move the slider, the colors of the
states as well as the legend ticks change to
reflect the changing prices. As you can see, both
the minimum and maximum unit price continuously
increase over time which makes sense and shows
inflation. Now for the dropdown. The initial
map is set to view dairy prices, but we can
choose from any in this list of food categories.
Then the last functionality is the click function.
So, when you click on each state, you can see
two graphs pop up on the right that show
the food stamp usage as well as the unit
price throughout the year. Thanks for
watching and I hope you enjoyed this demo!